Actually, I will say this.
We've been getting more people pitching guests. Yeah. And the guests that have come in have been great. They've been great.
Frederick's a lot of them. It's so cool that this is happening. I love it. And I think it's, like, if you're out there and you're, you know, we're gonna have to reorder this at it.
This is this shouldn't be at the very very end. Maybe this should be at the beginning, but I feel we haven't announced what to make. We've been getting more people suggesting guests to us. And if you will listen to the show, and you think someone's a great fit, actually suggested to us.
We've had multiple guests come on. They've crushed them.
And you know who's gonna be a good fit. So tell us. Tell us. It makes the whole thing more exciting and more interesting. So, please, if you think someone's gonna be a great fit for us, email us at two tail pod at wish dot com or just like contact us on LinkedIn or what have you ever you want. We wanna hear who you think should be on the show.
Hello, and welcome to talking to you live with Chris Savage. I am your host Chris Savage, and I am joined by the one, the only Sylvia lubau. Silvy. Give it a Here we are again.
Do another episode. Do another back to back days, which has actually been a delight. We're powerful. We are a powerful team right now.
Yes. There's a lot of power. There's a lot of energy. We and we got a lot of energy, a lot of power from our guests today Frederick Thompson, who is the founder and CEO of a design company called Superside.
And Superside a creative subscription service that helps businesses manage design at scale. So you have big projects. You wanna work with high quality you can stop at Superside. Fun conversation.
Talked a lot about, you know, managing stress, talked a lot about nature, talked about mountaineering, talked about a lot of stuff. So we have that coming up for you very soon. Yeah. But first, what guy. You talking too loud, savage? Oh, it's got me talking too loud.
Do we talk about movies the other day? We started to talk about mission impossible.
And my feelings on the latest installment.
Were there other movies you were wanting to talk about? We we didn't talk about Barbie. Right? Didn't talk about Barbie.
Haven't seen Barbie yet. Oh, wow. Okay. I haven't seen Barbie or Oppenheimer.
I know. What am I doing with my life? Who am I? I have honestly so I saw Oppenheimer in the morning at the Providence Play Small one of only thirty imaxes in the world with seventy millimeter projection. Oh, boy. It was a delight, but a downer. Then I saw Barbie later that night.
And it was, delight at an upper. You know, it's like, and I have been thinking to myself, like, man, it is fun to go to the movie. It is so fun. And I and I wish since then, I have this, like, two weeks ago or something.
I'm just like, why can there not be another one? But give me something else, please. Sound like Let me go and buy popcorn and candy and and a massive vat of, like, of Coke. That's all I want.
It's just a great movie and all over the world. I was gonna ask I was gonna ask, do you get popcorn? Do you have to get popcorn when you're at the movies? So that day, I got one popcorn, which seemed like a nice The night time.
Night time popcorn. The night time. It seemed like a little extreme. I'd had like a massive iced coffee before Oppenheimer.
And That's a dangerous combo. Levin was like yelling at me. He's like, you shouldn't be doing this. Yeah.
You really shouldn't. I did. I know I had did have to get up and pee. That's, you know, that's what happens.
But it was three hours. It was just like, is this a good moment? And, you know, you're sprinting down the steps and you're trying, you know. You're like, don't fall.
Don't fall. Don't fall. Yes. Yes.
Yes. Yes. But I just that feeling, there's something about the, like, a this I think it's just so satisfying. Oh, yeah.
You're talking to a real movie theater dog. I know you love me with it. Is so satisfying when you're at a great movie in the theater. It's hard to beat that.
It really is. It's it's an incredible feeling and the smells and the you know, when, like The sticky stuff under it. Yeah. Yeah.
Stuff on some gum. And eating too much candy.
It is really good. It's just sour patch kids, like, mixed with junior I was thinking about dumped in the mouth.
That is not my combo, but I Okay. Good for you. But I was thinking about taking myself to the movies tonight. So we'll see.
Tonight. Tonight. Which one will you what will you see? So Barbie and Boppenheimer, I have to see was my boyfriend.
That's like a pact.
But Yeah. Theater camp, which is a little indie about theater camp that looks very, very funny.
That's high on my list, past lives. I don't know if you've about that. Don't know what it is.
I'll I'll hit you with some with a list.
Oh, no. I would love a list. Yeah. Yeah. On that list, we should release that list.
Sylvia's movie summer movie flicks list of September September. Twenty twenty three. Yeah. That's it. Okay.
Good. Great. What's got you talking to them? Oh, I feel like I I mean, I it wasn't movies, but now it's movies.
You know what?
This is we're gonna stay on movies. So during the pandemic, when it was, like, peak pandemic, When you're getting COVID every week?
Before that.
This is, we're talking, like, early days.
Like, going to the grocery store maybe once a week, you know. Got it. Yep. Like, putting mail in paper bags.
You know, everyone's trying to fill their their evening time in different ways, and I started doing this movie trivia. On Instagram, and people loved it. And what it was was just like, I would do five rounds, five gifts, name that movie. Right? Okay.
And Like, on an Instagram live or, like, on stories? On stories. On stories. Yeah. Okay. Stories. And they're on my Instagram rock lobster, three r's at the beginning.
So take a look. But I'm gonna bring them back because they were they were great.
They were great. That's great. I never made good on my promise to award prizes. I kept saying was like, prizes.
And, maybe it's time for me to Yeah. Well, funny, if you went back and gave prizes, those people Do you think? Because I I have the winners. Oh, you should absolutely do that.
Do all the winners need talking to Lighthouse that have nothing to do with name that movie, but everything to do is how love. No. They need they need they need something that's with me in that movie. They need, you know, custom Custom swag.
Custom silvie swag. It's a design query that maybe our guest can help us. So Oh, yes. You can work with Superside, and we're fortunate to have Frederick CEO here to help us all learn more.
So let's jump to that interview with him. Let's do it.
Frederick, thank you so much for being on the show. Really excited that you're here with us today. And, how how are you? How's your day going?
Great. Thanks for, inviting me. Yeah, they're going pretty well. I've had a couple of weeks with two kids with chicken pot and so just sort of recovering. Oh, no.
From that trying to, yeah, get some, get some sleep and get back in the game. But, Yeah. What are the techniques that you're using with, like, these days? So, like, help with that. Is it, like, the I've seen it remember when I was, like, a I had chicken pox, and it was, like, the oatmeal bath. You know, it was, like, take a bunch of oatmeal and dump it in the bathtub and get in there. Are are people still doing that?
I don't I haven't heard you we've been goofing around and and that never really popped up. But, yeah, great advice. Maybe we'll try that, or yeah. It's a good one.
Yeah. It's a great great idea.
Well, look, as you know, this show is called Talking too loud. And the reason it's called talking too loud is because when I get excited, like, when I get excited about chicken pox or anything, when I get excited, I cannot control the volume of my voice. And so we love to have people on, talk to them about the things that they get excited about, talk about things that I get excited about, and we love to start the show by hearing, what has you excited? So what has you talking too loud these days?
What has you really excited right now? Yeah. For me, it's, it's usually when I get to talk about nature, in one way or another, I'm really excited about, nature. I think everyone should be you know, I live in in Oslo.
It's a tiny city. It can't even really cold the city, maybe more like a town, but it has a fantastic forest surrounding it, and I spend a great deal of my free time, outside them. Yeah. I'm just super excited to talk about nature and the need to you know, preserve it and, they need to, restore, ancient forest.
In Europe, there's hardly any Old Forest left in Norway, which is one of the countries with the most forest. It's like zero point three percent of the of the land mass is, is is truly untouched forest and Oh, wow. You know, continental europe. It's hardly anything so.
America's actually much better with, in Europe. It's You don't hear that much these days. Yeah. Are you yeah.
I saw when I asked you that question, I did I just wanna say this for the for people who are listening and I watched you. I did see a sparkle in your eye as you said to make sure. I saw the sparkle go. Are you are you, like, taking your kids out hiking?
Are you camping? Are you I mean, I I I've only been in Norway when I was a kid. I don't remember very well. But, like, are you going to the fjords?
Like, what are you doing out there? Yeah. For sure. I mean, I'm trying to do everything, and pardon me for not talking too loud.
I have a, you know, two year old right behind the wall that I'm trying to, to not wait. So I'm gonna do this very low voice. But still very excited, voice.
Everything, yeah, we're we're going all around. I used to do quite a bit of mountain climbing and, and, you know, just like long hikes and both winter and, and and summer in Norway and elsewhere, but now with kids, it's it's harder to do, and so I've gotten really into this whole forest thing. You don't have to go that far, just drive twenty minutes or or something and walk around inside the the forest. So, yeah, definitely bringing the kids, in there, and it's super easy because they play with anything in the forest.
Everything is fun for them, and so you can stay out the whole the whole day. The only problem in Norway is the weather, obviously, aside from that, it's it's great. Yeah. I relate to that.
I feel like there's, like, it's, we underestimate how much joy kids can get from the right outdoor experience.
And when you were saying that, it made me think about, like, just the the beach, but also just like mud. And I I think when my kids are, like, two and four, when we would just, like, take them outside, they'd be, like, a muddy thing and they're, like, this is the most fun thing in the world. And they're just, like, covered and digging through Dicks was like, I mean, I there's not a really comfortable place for me here, but they seem so happy. Like, great. This is this is good.
Excellent.
Alright. Well, look. I, like, it's thank you for for telling us about that, and that's awesome. And I hope everyone can get a sparkler on their eye the way that you do when you talk about nature, but I I have a feeling you're also excited about Superside.
So I I would love to I would love for you as the founder and CEO of Superside to explain what it is and what makes you different. Totally. So we're kind of, Amazon prime for creative services. It's, sort of subscription that you buy and you get access to any capability under the sun, with zero friction, and you just pay by the hour whatever it cost it deducts from your subscription.
You can buy everything from presentation design and add design to sophisticated video production and brand and and marketing strategy. And so really whatever you need and It's the most flexible and easiest way to, increase the speed, of your design and creative teams and, and to increase the creative performance we're really excited about, about that. It's, something wishing every single company in the world should, should get And where did the idea come from? So I worked in e commerce at the time and originally in in Indonesia, actually.
It was part of building an e commerce company in Indonesia. And, remember working with a lot of, yeah, just really talented people there and and and thought, you know, it should be a magical teleport to to make sure that these these guys can participate in the, in the global labor market, because if if they could, they would make ten times as as much. And so superside in its inception was was really around that, and I've my whole career been primarily working in in marketing. And and for me, it's, it's kind of, you know, just become more and more obvious that creative is such a huge differentiator when it comes to marketing and it's becoming ever more important impressed, you know, the algorithms and and so on are taking kind of charge of the the media buying.
And, you see more and more products just purely driven by amazing creative. I saw you were drinking a box of liquid death, which is, you know, just an exceptional story of how creative is able to, to drive, Oh, it's unbelievable. Marketing, but just overall kind of company performance and create almost like a new category just purely based on amazing creative, right? So that kind of shows the power of of creative, and yeah, it's just a really exciting intersection between, lots of different, fields.
That's awesome. And, I feel like what I saw and tell me if this is right is you got you got started with, like, a more broad, set of requests that you could go to Superside for, then you focused in on design. And can you tell us about how you made that decision that's the case?
Yeah. Totally. That's, that's the case. I'm not sure if you've been browsing around on archive dot org and and checked out my my terrible motorcycle from twenty to fifteen probably.
So I mean, I we I'm a very kind of, e cig guy in, in some ways. And so starting up the company, we just made a website and and said all these things that we could do, and we put the chat if widget from some chat company in the middle and said, yeah, just tell us what you want. These are all the things that we can do, and we had nothing.
You know, and and some startups are, you know, you spend years trying to, like, figure out the concept and and da da da and do our and stuff, and we were just, you know, let's just put it up. And then nothing happened for like a while, but all of a sudden, some like random people just starting submitting tasks of the on the chat thing, and we were like, oh, let's try to, you know, do those tasks and, went to Upwork and Fiverr, to find people to to help us, or just did the tasks ourselves, and it everything, you know, data entry, or research, or design, anything and everything, and we didn't have any kind of credit card system or invoicing or or anything.
And so after we had completed the task, we would just sort of send a message back and be like, if you could pay us this amount that would be amazing, maybe half the people paid, the other half was for just scammers or unhappy. So so that was kind of the start, and then just, yeah, built on that, to to to where we are. Today through lots of bad decisions and some good decisions and and lots of learnings, along the way.
Where did the where do you know where those initial customers came from? Like, you put up that broad website and then, like, did and you said just where people randomly start filling out the form I I love that description.
But, like, do you know where they were coming from, or was it at, like, did you Super random. You know, some people, we knew some people, presumably, like, came from Google search, some people may have had heard that, from friends of ours that we had started this, you know, we'd started sending out lots of spammy emails to lots of people, which was like not a very successful tactic in but just sort of, like, went on Facebook to spread it out. And you're just trying. Some people just, like, stumbled upon the website.
And so, randomly, we we got in touch with some, like, British solar cell installation company that got us to sit in Google Maps and map the site of roofs in the UK to determine whether they were fit for, you know, a solar, rooftop solar installation, you know, just super, super, random and, and learn a lot from, from just doing all these things ourselves, and learn kind of that the freelancer marketplace is like work and fiber and ninety nine designs in many ways were fundamentally broken. And back in twenty fifteen, everyone kind of thought online work is gonna be hundreds of billions of dollars, people working online.
Everyone thought these these platforms would be be the future, but, we just felt that the quality wasn't, what it needed to be, and we wanted to build something that, was both better for the freelancers themselves who were all kind of complaining about the platforms and and better for, like a mers and so on. In a way, we've built kind of a company that is in in the middle between, a freelancer marketplace and a true original agency, and we're calling it Creative as a Service, and there's now, I don't know, fifty or one hundred companies in in this emerging category, and, and I think it's, yeah, I just think it's a really nice model, much better for customers and freelancers alike.
I mean, the vision of it makes a lot of sense and you instantly get it. And I I'm I'm very interested because I have a bunch of friends who run agencies. One of the common questions and concerns is how do you scale keeping things high quality? Like, how do you it's it's and it's hard even whenever one works for you full time.
So, like, is there a secret sauce, or can you not tell us? Like, like, how how are you actually keeping the quality high as you connect these people to back? It is really hard.
And I don't think there is a secret sauce, and I think it's being hard is, what we're trying to solve. And that's why it's valuable for customers, and that's why it takes a lot of, of hard work and, having solved a lot of those problems, and and we still have lots of problems left to solve, but us having solved a lot of those problems and scale to size that we are today is is in a way our moat, or or defense safety.
And and very often people think about defensibility and it's always like network externalities or, you know, variety or or these things, but sometimes it's defensible just to do something that is very hard. And and quite a few agencies are are really able to scale past you know, five, ten million dollar annual recurring revenue type, scale and so on. There's some there's some reasons for that. We've, we've had all of those challenges and solved some of them, and and and there are definitely many more left to, to solve.
I'm gonna get specific here, but you feel free to not answer this if you don't want. But so if I if I let's say I bid something out. So we're gonna do some big event here with Yeah. And we have a lot of other stuff going on.
We're like, okay. We need design help, and we need to be really high quality, and we need to match our brand. And we go to you all. We're like, we bid a project and we say, hey, this is what it's gonna take.
This is what it's gonna look like. Walk me through what happens. Do we put the budget up front? Did, like, or do you tell us the budget?
You know, like, like, how flexible are the timelines? Like, I did I guess the way I'm trying to say is the specifics really matter here, and I would love to hear how that that works.
Absolutely. So, yeah, we're not really doing the agency model where we do pitch work and bid on a specific project and all those things, we feel that that's in a way inefficient, and we understand why it's interesting and useful, but, we're trying to keep prices low, and we're trying keep utilization high and we're trying to be efficient. And so what we're doing is we're saying that the way to interact with us here at at Superside is through a subscription model.
You a monthly subscription anywhere from three thousand dollars a month to, you know, tens of thousands of dollars per month if you're a large larger enterprise customer, and you get a certain number of hours included. And then it's just up to you to, make the most of of that, and and we're obviously trying to help, but, we we are placing some burden on the customer in, in terms of creating high quality briefs for what you want. Got it. So we get in there with serious arts paying five thousand dollars a month. We have briefs that we're sending out to the creatives.
On, let's say, a monthly basis. And there's different people that are pitching on, like, hey, pick me to do the brief kind of a deal. And then we select people, and then they do it. And if we and if they're great, we keep working with them.
Is that the idea? So as part of the onboarding, we build you a dedicated team for the capabilities that Okay. You've said that that you need, so you get the creative project manager, you get a creative lead, you get, one or two or maybe three designers for the specific capabilities that you need. Let's say you are super focused on on advertising design, then you know, we get you some ad designers, but Got it.
Then if you need other types of capabilities, we'll just loop loop those in and, and worked, with you guys, all of that. That's cool. That's great. And that does seem different.
That's why that's why I'm trying to get specific It feels like a it's a different model, and customers taking some risk, but in return, I mean, even having dedicated resource is not a thing you always get. Totally. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, I think, very used for, for many customers to have, a dedicated team in combination with, with the flexibility to, to scale up and down.
And And in a way, that's been one of our most important challenges to ensure that there is super fluid global staffing of of talent and ensure that projects get started within a few hours and and completed, in the fastest possible way. And I think what we, really excel at is is is is speed. I think almost no other company in in in this category or among agencies can can really beat us on on on speed.
I think that's something that many people are frustrated with, with their agencies about. It takes long time to get started. It takes long time complete projects, and a lot of time is being spent on internal meetings and discussing back and forth. And, and so We're we're quite good at at executing and and moving very, very quickly.
Very cool. That's awesome.
Tell me about the company. So, like, are you in person, are you remote? Where is everybody? How does it work?
Yeah. So we're fully remote, and we've been since the start, and, for a long while everyone was like that's super weird. And, and I'm not sure if you can even remember, but pre COVID, everyone was was super skeptical about, and well, remote. And it was a hard time for us convincing companies to to become customers, but but after COVID, it's been it's been completely legitimized, and and so we're today around seven hundred people in, sixty five different countries, I think, really all over the world, I think the largest bulk of people are in Latin America. So Brazil and Argentina and Colombia, top three countries there. And our largest stand alone country is South Africa.
And then in addition, we have a ton of people in Southern, and Western Europe, not a lot of people in the US. Some people, some people in the US and and a few in in Canada, but but really, yeah, all over all over the world. That's amazing. And the seven hundred people includes, like, all of the creatives and any, like, everybody who works for you.
Is that right? Yes. Exactly. Got it. And then, so when you're putting together teams, are you thinking about building a culture for all the freelancers too and, like, the full time folks?
Like, how do you Do you differentiate? Like, how do you think about that? How do you think about culture? How do you think about communications?
How do you think about, like, operations across that scale? That's a lot of human beings.
To be coordinating, get them aligned, figure out the ways of making decisions in a super side way. Like, tell me about that.
Absolutely. So now, today, we've moved from a freelancer model that we started out with towards a model where almost everyone are are full time, but still kind of relatively flexible, so can sort of scale up and down how much you work if you are a creative and really sort of like control control your own.
Time still, but everyone works somewhere between seventy to one hundred and fifty percent, if you want to, make make more money in in one in one month. So so that's kind of the model the model there.
In terms of culture, we're treating everyone the same and everyone's part of the same slack and everyone's part of the same company irrespective of whether you're an engineer or a customer facing, a designer or creative strategist or, or whatever it, it might be.
How we think about culture. I mean, it's, the most important thing, for us. It's reflected in everything that we're we're doing, over time, or I remember kinda starting out. Superside, I, I always thought, you know, values and vision and and mission was like very Americanized, BS thing, but as I've grown, and learned the hard way through actual experience have gradually become incredibly convinced that, values is the most important thing, and when we're hiring, value system is the thing that we're we're placing the most importance on more so than experience, more than competency or, or anything else, really, yeah, I just found it to be the only really real way to enforce culture over time to treat the test as the centerpiece of of the recruiting process and also to, make it an integral part of performance management.
So when we do our semiannual reviews, then values is, kind of half of that piece, and it's really the primary reason for any terminations that we're doing of people is, if there are, if to switch with, with values the way we we see it. That's so cool. That's amazing.
It's funny and you check about it being this, like, US thing to, like, values and mission. And I remember when we were, like, ten people.
And my cofounder, Brandon, and I were like, there's something about the fact that we're still doing this, and this is actually fun. And that, like, there's something unique here. And we're like, I think this is, is this our culture? This what culture is?
And we started talking about it, and I remember I'll never forget the feeling of, like, we had an all company meeting, which was just ten people. You know, it's like, we're gonna show you this slide that we made like an hour earlier. It's like, hey, everyone. Come to the kitchen.
Let's look at this and we're like, we need to talk about values, and we need to define our values. And we have some ideas, but we need your help and I'll never forget this, designer on the team. She was like, what does this big company stuff for Like, what is this? This is, like, why why do you have us doing this right now?
I look back on it because it was like, if anything, like, investing in that more even earlier would have helped us. And I think it's like so funny because it feels so soft, but it is actually like the core thing. Eventually. It's just like, can you solve problems and can you make decisions in a way that's aligned with the company?
What sense. And actually, that's hard because there's so many details. You gotta get right and nuances. You have to get right to actually scale that feeling and scale that experience to grow.
So, I mean, it's just funny to hear you say that because it just it really brings that back, that feeling of, is that true? You know, or is no. It's not actually.
So what is, is so it can be bs, obviously, lots of companies have bs value. So I think that's the problem. Right? But can also be very powerful if you do it right.
So what's your values? Or what's your number one value maybe instead of we don't have to run through? Yeah. We have we have oh, you know, I've I feel like I wanna show you our values.
Can I do this, Sylvia?
Show those values.
Because I'll share the screen in just be in the recording.
This is my favorite way to show it. So we think of our values as the way to make decisions that with you. This is what we use internally. It's also on the website. The first one is to center the customer. And so we strive to understand and meet customer's needs by prioritizing what's best for them and providing authentic exceptional experiences.
And so you're making decisions, take the customer into account, think about the customer, put the customer first is the idea. The next one is keep it simple.
To find simple solution that are clear and easy to understand. We focus on the core of the problems we're trying to solve.
So this is like basically from hard won lessons trying to make things too complex. Like, I I feel like a lot of times, I don't know if you've had the same experience. You come up with a solution that's really complex and you feel really smart. And then it's so, like, taxing to continue to manage this collection or communicate to other people that we prefer to make a simpler decision.
Because that's gonna be easier to maintain, easier for people to understand, better for customers, better to the team, than a more complex one. Does that make sense? Yeah. For sure.
We have something similar. I I like it, but it's very, it's very hard to implement this. Keep it. Keep it simple.
It is hard. It's, like, that's why it's a it's actually hard to do. The next one for us is stay nimble. And so we take action even when things are ambiguous.
We pivot fast. We find a better approach to new information. So this idea is we're constantly learning. We need you to stay nimble as we're in markets that are changing a lot.
Our a lot. The competitive landscape is changing a lot. We can't get too married to any one solution. We need to we need to be able to change.
Take ownership. So when we encounter a launch. We figure out a way forward to resolve it together.
This is, like, we need you to think like an owner in the business. And the last one is focus on outcomes. So we stay super focused on the end goal. That means we're open to changing our paths and processes to get results.
And so that's for us since worked. Yeah. And my my lesson is, like, as we've done this more and more and more, people adopted it more and more. And then ultimately, what we don't hear is like, hey, how do you do this in a wisty away?
Like, hopefully, if you have a tough decision, you can use these values to figure it out. Sorry. I went off such a tangent on this. I really wanted to go on this, but as you can see, I got too excited.
So sorry.
Yeah. No. No. That was great. Super interesting. I love to hear about other companies, values.
I feel like a lot of startups are doing it, right. A lot of big companies are are doing it wrong, and I think that's part of the reasons why startups are, are are are growing and and winning and and the big companies are just kind of creating this demoralizing capsules because it's they're not taking it. Seriously seriously not so. Yeah. I think in big companies too, like, you end up with you can end up with the situation of people getting too political. Like, it's more about how do you use your political status to move through the organization, then like how do we actually drive success?
And so, the the wrong thing, the wrong things can rewarded.
And, that's when you see companies that are, like, their values are the most basic things in the world. They're, like, We look for honesty and integrity. It's like, oh, if if that's the only thing you're looking for, you got a problem. Like, you know, it's like, you should be able to hire honest and and, people who have integrity. And if and if that's if you're safe, if that has to be your value, you must have a number of people who are not very honest.
What are super sized values? Yeah. We have, I think, five values too. Not sure if you had five or or or six five.
So number one is, be kind, which we think should be the number one value of every company, but, unfortunately, it's not I grew up in a, with parents where there wasn't a lot of rules and and regulations, and, I always thought that it was really strange why countries and companies would have all of these rules, and and my parents really only enforced this rule of of being kind. And, I always thought that was such an amazing amazing value, and we've we've had it in the company. I think it's really you know, become a huge part of who we are and everyone says after they're onboarding that's, yeah, it's remarkable how how nice everyone is here, I think for for me in the eight years or so I've been at Superside, I can only remember if you once or twice where I have, where I've really had an actual fight with people.
I just really dislike fighting and and it seems completely unnecessary. To me, and then everyone's like, ah, but then, you know, are you just all consensus in harmony and blah blah blah.
And that's why also we have our our second value, which is to seek the truth. And I think, being kind really ties into that very nicely because psychological safety, I think is very important for people to, dare to challenge the the status quo and to, dare to challenge authority, and, so that's our second value.
The third value is, called Speed Is Safety, which is sort of a mountain climbing, tagline, which is because when you're out and you're trying to climb the mountain, and it's very tempting to make sure everything is like super secure and the ropes and you check everything, but most of the injuries in the mountains actually happens because people aren't making it to the top fast enough, and so they kind of just get stuck in the middle.
Or get hit by a stone or or or something, but, you know, there can always be bad weather can come or, you know, the sun goes down. And then, and and that's kind of a metaphor obviously for changing conditions in in the industry and, and and and the need to just kind of continuously move forward and better to make a decision and go for it and, then then to stand, then to stand still.
The fourth one is, decide locally, which, we think is a a super important value. It's partly also a, Norwegian value where we all grew up being farmers and fishermen in small villages along the town and, hated the Danish king that came and tried to collect the taxes, and we all just wanted to decide, locally.
And so, so yeah, we're trying to just let people be autonomous and, and run wrong thing. It's not always, easy, but we're trying to commit, add to that. And then finally, it's a value called, roll up your your sleeves. I think very similar to what you said, you know, around taking ownership at even more, kind of trying to applaud the people that are doing the dishes, if you will. You know, it's like go to a trip cabin trip with with some friends or or something, and there's always, you know, there's always one guy that makes the stake.
And that's it. He just doesn't do the dishes, and, he doesn't make the salad. And, he just makes the steak. And, and we're trying to is like, applaud, taking the dishes and not making a big deal out of that.
You know, it's, not that annoying to do the dishes, and everyone needs to do it once in a while. Especially if everyone does it. Yeah. Exactly.
Exactly. And if you have that culture where everyone just by contributes after dinner puts everything into the dishwasher and cleans up. It takes five minutes and everything's everything's stolen. So you get that culture in the company, and and it's really nice for for everyone when everyone answers their email on time and does their all their boring things is is done on on time.
It's hard for it's hard for me. It's hard for everyone because it's it means that you just have to do all of those boring tasks but at the end of the day, like, a job is a job and you get paid because it's a job and, you know, there are some boring tasks involved in running a home So, that's life. And, and, yeah, people seem to appreciate that, That's right. Yeah.
I love that. I'm laughing. I think it was just like a job. It's a job.
So you do it. And there's that you don't wanna do, and you do them. And you just try to get them. And that seems like speed is safety is helpful too on that.
The faster you get through this, the better off you are. Totally. Do you use mountaineering?
Like, is that your base of, like, analogies in the business when you're Mountaineering?
Mountain climbing? What do you call them? What do you Yeah. Everything. Yeah. I mean, in Norway, you have to do all all the above, to get some value out of it. It's I mean, the whole country is just, like, rock.
No, totally. Yeah. I think there's, lots of metaphor. I think for me, personally, mountain climbing and and mountain airing is, it's also very useful because, you get to very vividly experience fair and the anxiety And, it's an emotion that, you also very frequently encounter in start up, life especially as a founder.
And, I used to be kind of just like, ignore it and and in in mountain climbing, it's just usually much better to stop and pause and breathe and, take control over Yeah. Over the fear. And so for me personally, that's been just very, very useful to to observe, how I'm feeling to to a greater, extent, and then, nature in general is is very, very useful to mean in in many ways, but it's also, something that is very common across all the people in in our company and, it's something that, we can all share, I think partly because we're building a remote company to, you know, just reduce the need to fly around the world and, reduce the need to have these buildings and and and all those, things, but it's also so much beautiful nature in so many different countries, and and many of the people in Superside are are really good at taking advantage of, of that. So I think it's, I think some of the analogies work well.
That's great. Yeah. It's funny because we we had a moment where we were talking about mountaineering a lot at Wistia too. For how we operate. And it's because I met this guy, Ed Vsters, who is this, like, he he's a US climber climbed to all fourteen of the world's eight thousand meter peaks without supplemental oxygen.
Wow. And he's a super inspiring guy and wrote a book about all this and his thing was that the top is halfway. And I was you're talking about your analogies. I it's very it's there's something about the power of that of, like, having the right story to rally people and build the culture.
And, like, the top is halfway for us for a while. It was, like, a big deal. So it's like, hey, you wanna get this feature done or you wanna build this thing. But once it's released, that's actually when it that's we're now at the top.
So you have to save energy because We have to get back down.
And the, we have to market this thing. We have to support this thing. We have to sell this thing. And, like, if we're not planning for the second half, then we're gonna in trouble. And he talked about a similar thing in terms of, like, the people who always run into trouble on Everest are the people who, like, actually climbed Everest a bunch of times and been, like, a guy for folks and stuff is the people who are like, they don't save anything at to, like, so they get to the top with no energy left, basically. He has some story I'm gonna forget the specifics, but he was within, like, ninety meters of the top and he turned around because he just felt like there was enough time left in the day.
The conditions were getting bad. He could see the closest how close it was, but he felt that it just still gonna be too dangerous. And that was one of the years that, like, there was, like, a a huge number of people who, got like destroyed by a storm and everest. A bunch of people died.
And so it was kind of this crazy thing. I also think it's it's just the the power of that story of you talking about the speed of safety and also managing your fear and anxiety. I could picture it. Like, I can picture you say it's like on the mountain in a brief moment, catching a breath, as, like, should we keep going or not?
Or, like, is this actually, like, what's in our control or what isn't in our control? Which I just wrote, like, a a long thing about the other day on LinkedIn, actually, because I get that question a lot about how you manage how do you manage stress?
And it sounds like that's one of the ways you do it is you, like, anchor back to your your mountaineering experience. And it's just it's just cool for me how those things like our fitting together. So what so how do you manage stress? It's, I think One of the most important, I think that I'm quite good at it.
I think it's one of the things that I'm quite good at compared many other people, and there's lots of things that I'm not so so good at, but it's something that I've reflected a lot on, and and I'm just very interested, in, and I think for for many people not being able to handle stress very well, is like massive inhibiting them from realizing their potential. And so I think it's just such an important, topic. And so, and I have lots to learn, still, so I'd be curious to to hear what's what you wrote and and what's Yeah. I can give you the short version.
And I'm also interested to hear what you, how you do this.
I mean, for me, it's a combination of a few different things. I found meditation at one point. And it was like, I wrote about this in the post, but I was on vacation. I shouldn't have been checking my email, for work.
I checked my email. I got bad news.
It was like, I was in Greece. It was probably like midnight, and I just couldn't go to sleep. And my mind was like racing.
Just, like, could not stop thinking about the problems. Like, what can I do to solve the problem? What should I do to solve the problem? Like, how do I solve this problem?
Like, just worrying, worrying, worrying, worrying, and then it occurred to me. I was like, I've heard that meditation can help with this. Like, I don't really believe in it. It seems like BS.
But, like, maybe I should try. And I, like, downloaded an app and I did, like, a ten minute meditation and know, part of it is you're counting your breaths in and out. So it's like one, two, three, four, like, you're doing this. And as I was doing it, I couldn't get past, like, four or Like, by the time I would get to four or five, like my brain would would race back to the stressful thing at work.
And that eventually I, in that first ten minute period of doing this, right near the last second, I realized I had counted to ten.
And I had counted to ten again.
And I took a breath. And suddenly the realization came to me of like, oh, this problem existed before I read the email. Gonna exist after I read the email. There's nothing I can do about this right now. I was like, in the moment, it, like, got me in the moment, and I just went to sleep. And I and since that day, I I when I realized I could actually manage some of my stressful thoughts by just realizing that they are just thoughts. They're not me.
That was, like, a huge unlock. And so that sent me down a whole course of, like, doing meditation every day. I did, like, five hundred days in a row, and I have a much easier time if I need to call that up, like I can call it up.
I do hard workouts every day.
And for me, like and there's a lot of research on this, stress, emotional stress is, like, your ability to handle it is also correlate to your ability to handle physical stress.
So if you can handle a lot of physical stress, you can handle more emotional stress. And there's this great book, called The Art of Learning by this guy Josh Waitkin who is the Well, he's come here. Yeah. You know him. The chess, you know, the chess master who's, like, searching for Bobby Fishers about him. But he'd be under so much emotional stress. His heart rate up.
You know, he dropped like seven pounds, like, during, like, one of those tournaments, which is like a common thing now for trust players. And The way he was able to increase his ability to handle the emotional stress was actually to increase his ability to handle physical stress beforehand. And this has now become like a common thing. So if you have a very stress job, it turns out if you work out a lot and you lift heavy things or you push yourself and runs or whatever the thing is for you, you know, if you keep run if you do a lot of runs, they get easier.
And that's your body being able to handle more stress. And so that actually connects to the emotional stress as well. So and there's some other stuff that I like to talk about in the post, but those are some of the anchors for me that I think about a lot that make it much easier for me to handle stress. But what about you?
What what kinds of things do you do? Yeah. I think those are are are great. I think just having some method is is is useful for for everyone for me.
I I think got started with all these, all these things after the military when it's a draft in Norway like, particularly excited to go, but you kind of, have to and went around, like, on these practice things, like, shooting without, and, and so I got tinnitus from from that. It's not like a tear terrible thing, but after after the army then, I got in touch with some, like, or the army put me on some pro where there's some, like, physiotherapist or or or someone that, just gives you all these, like, techniques, which is basically close to meditation and stretching and and these things. And,
and for me, it was just super instantly useful, and I was nine ten, and and this is now I got sixteen years ago almost. And so I've been doing some some things like that on and off, for for sixteen It's not necessarily meditation, but, I didn't have this, like, tinnitus thing as kind of a cannery in, in the coal mine when it starts to, be more, I I have to, you know, slow down a little bit and, or and do some of techniques and so, it sort of stops me from then pushing into this, like, bad territory where sometimes I people go where you're just like constantly checking your phone, like, completely manic, like, refreshing, like, answering emails and, I just cannot go, into that, that territory.
So that's the one thing that I do, and then, second thing is kind of, what I believe more and more, and I think what a lot of people are forgetting, I mean, all of this, like meditation stuff is is the power of just rationally thinking about stuff. And so as an example with, with relation to this sleep, sleeping thing in, is at least for me, and there's this poem in Horvamal, which is, the old, Viking wisdom poems from, like, the twelfth century.
And I just love the old stuff. It's so strange and weird, and they were all just chopping each other's heads off and stuff. But I mean, all that, like, violence, there's some, like, beautiful quotes and wisdom and I'm not gonna be able to translate from English, but there's this one two line poem that just says foolish is the one who lies awake in the night thinking about their problems, unable to, you know, have energy for the next day to to actually solve those problems and something that I think about every time I'm not able to sleep, I just think, Ah, you're being just so stupid. You know, this is so foolish.
The vikings knew it. You know, your mom knew it. Everyone knows it. Like So you just will yourself back to sleep.
Yeah. I'm I'm in I'm very much a believer in the power of like, rational, thinking, like, sitting down. Like, you can close your eyes and meditate and think about your your breath and stuff. I think that's totally great, and that's like one technique, but I think it's important to have a multitude of of techniques in your in your toolbox.
And I think, you know, sitting down and trying to actually think is something that a lot of people have forgotten how to do. Myself included. I remember the other day I read through my high school writing exams, and I was expecting to find this incredibly stupid and dull texts because I was like eighteen at the time, but I was like, wow, this is actually much better than I had expected.
And and I think it's potentially like the last time I sat down for for three hours or four hours or however long, it it lasted to fully concentrate without a phone on my side and and like really write something that I thought was was compelling, and and ever since I've just been writing emails and Slack messages, that's, you know, just terrible writing. And my writing now is is terrible. And if my writing is terrible, then probably my thinking is is terrible too, and I think a lot of people have kind of lost that ability sit for prolonged period of time, and you kind of need to go through that, but it's so painful, right? You need to go through that initial thirty minutes of boredom.
It's very annoying to go through, kind of the the forest of of boredom, but when you emerge on the other side, there is actually pretty nice and pretty cool, and you can you can think and and you will be kind of amazed at the clarity of your own, thinking. So so I like to try to do that. Supposedly Einstein sat for like eight hours nonstop without writing, just like thinking about these physics problems inside his his head, so maybe that artist is completely lost for us. I don't yeah. I mean, I don't think it's completely lost, but I, one hundred percent agree with you. It's actually the other thing I talked about in the post is, like, not exactly that, but basically, that we forget that thinking is work.
And, like, in the early days, you basically have nothing but time. So you're exact that you're talking about is like, you're like, oh, what should I do now? I don't know. You're just like thinking and doing and then things get busy and, like, we have a culture ness of, like, rewarding busyness.
And I think, especially in the US, and I feel like breaking through that and say actually not being busy is what you want because that's also that's how you can manage that stuff, and that's where you can get your breakthroughs.
Yeah. Completely. Completely agree. I hate being myself, both, like, in the weekends or in the weekdays, I just hate the feeling of being You gotta chill.
You love to chill outside nature. That's who he loves to do. Exactly. I could tell.
Exactly.
Especially with two little kids who, you know, like, you really need to chill.
Okay.
So Frederick, I have one last segment I wanna get into, which is the rapid fire segment. So I'm gonna ask you a bunch of questions.
Try to go for, like, one word or one sentence answers. Sound good? Sounds good. Alright. First question.
What is the best advice that someone has ever given you?
Yeah, that's a great, question. I remember actually someone gave me the advice, when I asked him for advice about raising kids, and he said, don't listen to any advice.
And I just thought that was great. And I was like, yeah, I'll just figure it out.
You know, we're reading and we're, you know, we're taking advice, but generally it is nice to try to figure it out for for yourself and find If you could trade places with anyone for a day, who would it be and why? I think for me, I would love to trade places with so on who is, in the middle of a polar expedition to Antarctica. That seems such a hassle to, like, prepare all the stuff and, you know, get all the logistics in place, but presumably have a really beautiful, when you're right in the middle area I'm sure I could do one day, especially if I could choose a relatively sunny nice.
I love that. It's like, I don't wanna do the prep. I don't wanna find the stuff. I just wanna be there in the moment when it's beautiful. Then I'm out. I love that. Okay.
What's one superpower you have? Yeah. I think it's gonna come back to this, this stressed tolerance, thing in addition to the stuff, the techniques that we've spoken about. I think that I am also naturally inclined to not stress out so much about things. I was, yeah, just raised that way, I suppose. And so I guess, my brain has, at that to to, handle those things reasonably well.
That's amazing.
What's one superpower you want to have?
Yeah.
That's, that's another gray great. And it can't be like flying and Whatever you want. Yeah. Actually, whatever you want.
I think that it would be great to, to be able to, to, yeah, it would be great to see into the into the future.
I think it would be amazing to be able to, yeah, use that to to help people and try to make the world, a better place.
It's, yeah, it's, It's an interesting world. I mean, I wasn't like that worried about the world, but increasingly I I am, and so being able to look into into the future will would be, would be possibly quite useful.
Well, I I love that. And I hope that Superside's future is bright and your family's future is bright.
Thank you so much for coming on the show. Where can people with you and Superside to learn more. Yeah. I mean, if you're a qualified buyer persona, with the budget, then you can send an email to frederick at superside dot com.
And if you are not, then you can go to the website, at superside dot com and check us out.
I love that. Alright. Thank you so much for coming out of the show. Likewise, great to be here. Thanks a lot for for having me.
Yeah. You really are delighted. I'm a fan. Very delighted over here. I'm a fan of Frederick.
I mean, when he started talking about Viking poems. He's like Oh, that was amidst all the killing. When we hit the when we hit the Viking poems, I was like, yes. This is it.
This is what I thought we were gonna get it recited, and I was I was ready. I was I was ready for it. I love a Viking poem. Yeah.
I love like, tried and true advice, like advice that has existed for a long time, and it still makes sense today Yeah. Is always, like, so awesome. Yeah. You know?
And, Never gets old. Never gets old. That was great.
And it just, like, interesting to talk to somebody who you know, he's almost like so soft spoken and, like, casual about the business he's built. But, obviously, he's done a very hard thing and scaled it a ton. It has huge opportunity in front of him. And, it's fun to talk to somebody who is just kind of so I'm not gonna say casual, but just, like, calm.
Yeah. Calm. About this process. Because It is it's just I guess this is what I'll say.
We talked to so many different entrepreneurs on the show and, like, people's styles and vibes are so different. What you could see is you can have many different styles and vibes and you can make something successful. And I feel like that's, like It's very true. Yeah.
If that's, like, really inspirational and, like, he's a great a great example of that. That's totally true. I think that's a great observation that, yeah, people come in different packages, and some some have that, like, of nonstop energy, and some have this sort of, like, measured way and, like, very rational way of, like, talking things. And, like, yeah, you get great products either way.
And superside, you know, when I was first, like, learning about it seemed a little bit like fiber and, like, Upwork, but I mean, the differences are are pretty significant in that, like, it's a subscription service, and then you get a dedicate team. Like, I think that was really interesting. The other thing is some of some of these interviews feel like old friends. Right?
And then some, when you don't know the guest, feel like first friend dates, and, like, this was a super fun first friend date.
Yeah. I like that way of putting it too. That's cool. And, yeah, there was a lot of stuff about their model that jumped out to me and got me excited about what they're doing. And Yeah. I hope that, like, I hope that people, like, give it a shot and, like, let us know what you think.
But, and I think my favorite part was at the end to It's like, how can people learn more? He's like, well, if you are a qualified prospect, please email me. That was just like on a bad shit. Yeah.
Incredible. Yeah. Yeah. No. Don't follow my newsletter on this thing, and then hopefully just come on and email me direct.
Like, let's go.
Let's go. Let's go.
And speaking of that, you know, you can always email us direct too. Let's be clear. Right? Yeah.
Yeah. Lines of communication. Channels are open. Keep it open. You can email us at detail potawas dot com.
We're also both on next dot com. And also on LinkedIn where we spend a lot of time these days, and just don't hesitate to reach out. An Instagram. Let's not forget about Instagram.
Yeah. Every every major social platform. And please rate and review the show wherever you listen to it. Helps get the word out there.
It helps us get better guests. It helps us make this show more interesting. And I think Is that it, Sylvia? That's all she wrote.
That's all she wrote. Alright. Until next time.
